README.md, before:

secured_1d_velocity_controller
==========================================

Simple velocity controller for a simple 1D joint that takes into account limit switches to prevent the joint to exceed limits by zeroing velocities that induce breaking limits.

![Licence](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-blue.svg)

# Quick Start Instructions

If you are familiar with ROS2, here are the quick-and-dirty build instructions.

  ```
  cd $COLCON_WS
  git clone git@github.com:secured_1d_velocity_controller/secured_1d_velocity_controller.git src/secured_1d_velocity_controller
  vcs import src --input src/secured_1d_velocity_controller/secured_1d_velocity_controller.<ros-distro>.repos
  rosdep install --ignore-src --from-paths src -y -r
  colcon build --cmake-args -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release    # Faster and more efficient build type
  cd ..
  ```
If you end up with missing dependencies, install them using commands from [Setup ROS Workspace](#setup-ros-workspace) section.

# How to use this Package and ROS Introduction

 - [Install and Build](#install-and-build)
   * [Install ROS Humble and Development Tooling](#install-ros-$ros_distro$-and-development-tooling)
   * [Setup ROS Workspace](#setup-ros-workspace)
   * [Configure and Build Workspace](#configure-and-build-workspace)
 - [Running Executables](#running-executables)
   * [Using the Local Workspace](#using-the-local-workspace)
 - [Testing and Linting](#testing-and-linting)
 - [Creating a new ROS2 Package](#creating-a-new-ros2-package)
 - [References](#references)

## Install and Build

### Install ROS Humble and Development Tooling

These instructions assume you are running Ubuntu 20.04:

1. [Install ROS2 Humble](https://index.ros.org/doc/ros2/Installation/Humble/Linux-Install-Debians/).
   You can stop following along with the tutorial after you complete the section titled: [Environment setup](https://index.ros.org/doc/ros2/Installation/Humble/Linux-Install-Debians/#environment-setup).
   Make sure you setup your environment with:
   ```
   source /opt/ros/$ros_distro$/setup.bash
   ```

   > **NOTE:** You may want to add that line to your `~/.bashrc`

   > **NOTE:** There is also a `zsh` version of the setup script.

1. [Install ROS2 Build Tools](https://index.ros.org/doc/ros2/Installation/Humble/Linux-Development-Setup/#install-development-tools-and-ros-tools).
   You do not need to build ROS2 from source.
   Simply install the tooling under the section titled "Install development tools and ROS tools".

1. Install `ccache`:
   ```
   sudo apt install ccache
   ```

1. Setup `colcon mixin` [Reference](https://github.com/colcon/colcon-mixin-repository) for convenience commands.
   ```
   sudo apt install python3-colcon-mixin
   colcon mixin add default https://raw.githubusercontent.com/colcon/colcon-mixin-repository/master/index.yaml
   colcon mixin update default
   ```

### Setup ROS Workspace

1. Create a colcon workspace:
   ```
   export COLCON_WS=~/workspace/ros_ws_foxy
   mkdir -p $COLCON_WS/src
   ```

   > **NOTE:** Feel free to change `~/workspace/ros_ws_foxy` to whatever absolute path you want.

   > **NOTE:** Over time you will probably have multiple ROS workspaces, so it makes sense to them all in a subfolder.
     Also, it is good practice to put the ROS version in the name of the workspace, for different tests you could just add a suffix to the base name `ros_ws_foxy`.

1. Download the required repositories and install package dependencies:
   ```
   cd $COLCON_WS
   git clone git@github.com:secured_1d_velocity_controller/secured_1d_velocity_controller.git src/secured_1d_velocity_controller
   vcs import src --input src/secured_1d_velocity_controller/secured_1d_velocity_controller.<ros_distro>.repos
   rosdep install --ignore-src --from-paths src -y -r       # install also is there are unreleased packages
   ```

   Sometimes packages do not list all their dependencies so `rosdep` will not install everything.
   If you are getting missing dependency errors, try manually install the following packages:
   ```
   sudo apt install ros2-foxy-forward_command_controller ros2-foxy-joint_state_broadcaster ros2-foxy-joint_trajectory_controller ros2-foxy-xacro
   ```

### Configure and Build Workspace:
To configure and build workspace execute following commands:
  ```
  cd $COLCON_WS
  colcon build --symlink-install --mixin rel-with-deb-info compile-commands ccache
  ```

## Running Executable

See `README.md` files of the packages for information regarding running executables.

<Add here some concrete data about current repository>

### Using the Local Workspace

To use the local workspace you have to source it by using local setup script:
  ```
  source $COLCON_WS/install/local_setup.bash
  ```
Since there are many errors one unintentionally do with wrong sourcing, please check also [Notes on Sourcing ROS Workspace](#notes-on-sourcing-ros-workspace).

#### Notes on Sourcing ROS Workspace

Sourcing of a workspace appends the binary and resource directories to appropriate environment variables.
It is important that you do not run the build command in the same terminal that you have previously sourced your local workspace.
This can cause dependency resolution issues.
Here is some advice copied from [Official ROS Workspace Tutorial](https://index.ros.org/doc/ros2/Tutorials/Workspace/Creating-A-Workspace/) on this:

Before sourcing the overlay, it is very important that you open a new terminal, separate from the one where you built the workspace.
Sourcing an overlay in the same terminal where you built, or likewise building where an overlay is sourced, may create complex issues.

Sourcing the local_setup of the overlay will only add the packages available in the overlay to your environment.
`setup` sources the overlay as well as the underlay it was created in, allowing you to utilize both workspaces.

So, sourcing your main ROS 2 installation’s setup and then the dev_ws overlay’s local_setup, like you just did, is the same as just sourcing dev_ws’s setup, because that includes the environment of the underlay it was created in.


## Testing and Linting

To test the packages packages built from source, use the following command with [colcon](https://colcon.readthedocs.io/en/released/).
In order to run tests and linters you will have had to already built the workspace.
To run the tests use following commands:
  ```
  cd $COLCON_WS
  colcon test
  colcon test-result
  ```

There are `--mixin` arguments that can be used to control testing with linters, specifically `linters-only` and `linters-skip`.

## Creating a new ROS2 Package

If you need to create a new ros2 package it is helpful to start with the official boilerplate for a ros2 package.
The command `ros2 pkg` can be used to generate the boilerplate details.
For example to create a new ros2 package called `example_package` with a node called `example_node` and library called `example_library` use this command:
  ```
  ros2 pkg create --build-type ament_cmake --node-name example_node --library-name example_library example_package
  ```

## References

Here are some useful references for developing with ROS2:

 - [Official ROS2 Tutorials](https://index.ros.org/doc/ros2/Tutorials/)
   * [Luanchfile](https://index.ros.org/doc/ros2/Tutorials/Launch-Files/Creating-Launch-Files/)
   * [Package](https://index.ros.org/doc/ros2/Tutorials/Creating-Your-First-ROS2-Package/)
   * [Parameters](https://index.ros.org/doc/ros2/Tutorials/Parameters/Understanding-ROS2-Parameters/)
   * [Workspace](https://index.ros.org/doc/ros2/Tutorials/Workspace/Creating-A-Workspace/)
 - [Example ROS packages](https://github.com/ros2/examples)
 - [Colcon Documentation](https://colcon.readthedocs.io/en/released/#)
 - [ROS2 Design Documentation](https://design.ros2.org/)
 - [ROS2 Launch Architecture](https://github.com/ros2/launch/blob/master/launch/doc/source/architecture.rst)

Pluginlib-Library: secured_1d_velocity_controller
Plugin: secured_1d_velocity_controller/Secured1dVelocityController (controller_interface::ControllerInterface)

Commit message:

Document in readme how to build the documentation.

README.md, after:

secured_1d_velocity_controller
==========================================

Simple velocity controller for a simple 1D joint that takes into account limit switches to prevent the joint to exceed limits by zeroing velocities that induce breaking limits.

The online documentation is available at: [https://yguel.github.io/secured_1d_velocity_controller/](https://yguel.github.io/secured_1d_velocity_controller/)

![Licence](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-blue.svg)

# Build the documentation
Go to the `doc` folder and run the following command:
```
cd doc
pipenv install
pipenv run make html
```

The documentation is then available in the `doc/_build/html` folder.
You can view it with your browser by accessing the file: `doc/_build/html/index.html`

# Quick Start Instructions

If you are familiar with ROS2, here are the quick-and-dirty build instructions.

  ```
  cd $COLCON_WS
  git clone git@github.com:secured_1d_velocity_controller/secured_1d_velocity_controller.git src/secured_1d_velocity_controller
  vcs import src --input src/secured_1d_velocity_controller/secured_1d_velocity_controller.<ros-distro>.repos
  rosdep install --ignore-src --from-paths src -y -r
  colcon build --cmake-args -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release    # Faster and more efficient build type
  cd ..
  ```
If you end up with missing dependencies, install them using commands from [Setup ROS Workspace](#setup-ros-workspace) section.

# How to use this Package and ROS Introduction

- [secured\_1d\_velocity\_controller](#secured_1d_velocity_controller)
- [Build the documentation](#build-the-documentation)
- [Quick Start Instructions](#quick-start-instructions)
- [How to use this Package and ROS Introduction](#how-to-use-this-package-and-ros-introduction)
  - [Install and Build](#install-and-build)
    - [Install ROS Humble and Development Tooling](#install-ros-humble-and-development-tooling)
    - [Setup ROS Workspace](#setup-ros-workspace)
    - [Configure and Build Workspace:](#configure-and-build-workspace)
  - [Running Executable](#running-executable)
    - [Using the Local Workspace](#using-the-local-workspace)
      - [Notes on Sourcing ROS Workspace](#notes-on-sourcing-ros-workspace)
  - [Testing and Linting](#testing-and-linting)
  - [Creating a new ROS2 Package](#creating-a-new-ros2-package)
  - [References](#references)

## Install and Build

### Install ROS Humble and Development Tooling

These instructions assume you are running Ubuntu 20.04:

1. [Install ROS2 Humble](https://index.ros.org/doc/ros2/Installation/Humble/Linux-Install-Debians/).
   You can stop following along with the tutorial after you complete the section titled: [Environment setup](https://index.ros.org/doc/ros2/Installation/Humble/Linux-Install-Debians/#environment-setup).
   Make sure you setup your environment with:
   ```
   source /opt/ros/$ros_distro$/setup.bash
   ```

   > **NOTE:** You may want to add that line to your `~/.bashrc`

   > **NOTE:** There is also a `zsh` version of the setup script.

1. [Install ROS2 Build Tools](https://index.ros.org/doc/ros2/Installation/Humble/Linux-Development-Setup/#install-development-tools-and-ros-tools).
   You do not need to build ROS2 from source.
   Simply install the tooling under the section titled "Install development tools and ROS tools".

1. Install `ccache`:
   ```
   sudo apt install ccache
   ```

1. Setup `colcon mixin` [Reference](https://github.com/colcon/colcon-mixin-repository) for convenience commands.
   ```
   sudo apt install python3-colcon-mixin
   colcon mixin add default https://raw.githubusercontent.com/colcon/colcon-mixin-repository/master/index.yaml
   colcon mixin update default
   ```

### Setup ROS Workspace

1. Create a colcon workspace:
   ```
   export COLCON_WS=~/workspace/ros_ws_foxy
   mkdir -p $COLCON_WS/src
   ```

   > **NOTE:** Feel free to change `~/workspace/ros_ws_foxy` to whatever absolute path you want.

   > **NOTE:** Over time you will probably have multiple ROS workspaces, so it makes sense to them all in a subfolder.
     Also, it is good practice to put the ROS version in the name of the workspace, for different tests you could just add a suffix to the base name `ros_ws_foxy`.

1. Download the required repositories and install package dependencies:
   ```
   cd $COLCON_WS
   git clone git@github.com:secured_1d_velocity_controller/secured_1d_velocity_controller.git src/secured_1d_velocity_controller
   vcs import src --input src/secured_1d_velocity_controller/secured_1d_velocity_controller.<ros_distro>.repos
   rosdep install --ignore-src --from-paths src -y -r       # install also is there are unreleased packages
   ```

   Sometimes packages do not list all their dependencies so `rosdep` will not install everything.
   If you are getting missing dependency errors, try manually install the following packages:
   ```
   sudo apt install ros2-foxy-forward_command_controller ros2-foxy-joint_state_broadcaster ros2-foxy-joint_trajectory_controller ros2-foxy-xacro
   ```

### Configure and Build Workspace:
To configure and build workspace execute following commands:
  ```
  cd $COLCON_WS
  colcon build --symlink-install --mixin rel-with-deb-info compile-commands ccache
  ```

## Running Executable

See `README.md` files of the packages for information regarding running executables.

<Add here some concrete data about current repository>

### Using the Local Workspace

To use the local workspace you have to source it by using local setup script:
  ```
  source $COLCON_WS/install/local_setup.bash
  ```
Since there are many errors one unintentionally do with wrong sourcing, please check also [Notes on Sourcing ROS Workspace](#notes-on-sourcing-ros-workspace).

#### Notes on Sourcing ROS Workspace

Sourcing of a workspace appends the binary and resource directories to appropriate environment variables.
It is important that you do not run the build command in the same terminal that you have previously sourced your local workspace.
This can cause dependency resolution issues.
Here is some advice copied from [Official ROS Workspace Tutorial](https://index.ros.org/doc/ros2/Tutorials/Workspace/Creating-A-Workspace/) on this:

Before sourcing the overlay, it is very important that you open a new terminal, separate from the one where you built the workspace.
Sourcing an overlay in the same terminal where you built, or likewise building where an overlay is sourced, may create complex issues.

Sourcing the local_setup of the overlay will only add the packages available in the overlay to your environment.
`setup` sources the overlay as well as the underlay it was created in, allowing you to utilize both workspaces.

So, sourcing your main ROS 2 installation’s setup and then the dev_ws overlay’s local_setup, like you just did, is the same as just sourcing dev_ws’s setup, because that includes the environment of the underlay it was created in.


## Testing and Linting

To test the packages packages built from source, use the following command with [colcon](https://colcon.readthedocs.io/en/released/).
In order to run tests and linters you will have had to already built the workspace.
To run the tests use following commands:
  ```
  cd $COLCON_WS
  colcon test
  colcon test-result
  ```

There are `--mixin` arguments that can be used to control testing with linters, specifically `linters-only` and `linters-skip`.

## Creating a new ROS2 Package

If you need to create a new ros2 package it is helpful to start with the official boilerplate for a ros2 package.
The command `ros2 pkg` can be used to generate the boilerplate details.
For example to create a new ros2 package called `example_package` with a node called `example_node` and library called `example_library` use this command:
  ```
  ros2 pkg create --build-type ament_cmake --node-name example_node --library-name example_library example_package
  ```

## References

Here are some useful references for developing with ROS2:

 - [Official ROS2 Tutorials](https://index.ros.org/doc/ros2/Tutorials/)
   * [Luanchfile](https://index.ros.org/doc/ros2/Tutorials/Launch-Files/Creating-Launch-Files/)
   * [Package](https://index.ros.org/doc/ros2/Tutorials/Creating-Your-First-ROS2-Package/)
   * [Parameters](https://index.ros.org/doc/ros2/Tutorials/Parameters/Understanding-ROS2-Parameters/)
   * [Workspace](https://index.ros.org/doc/ros2/Tutorials/Workspace/Creating-A-Workspace/)
 - [Example ROS packages](https://github.com/ros2/examples)
 - [Colcon Documentation](https://colcon.readthedocs.io/en/released/#)
 - [ROS2 Design Documentation](https://design.ros2.org/)
 - [ROS2 Launch Architecture](https://github.com/ros2/launch/blob/master/launch/doc/source/architecture.rst)

Pluginlib-Library: secured_1d_velocity_controller
Plugin: secured_1d_velocity_controller/Secured1dVelocityController (controller_interface::ControllerInterface)
